Before workflows and agents, there is a more useful default: the augmented language model.
It is not a team of agents.
It is one model connected to retrieval, tools, and memory.
Retrieval supplies current external facts instead of relying only on training data.
Tools let the model query an order, read a database, call an API, or perform a real action.
Memory preserves useful state across steps.
These capabilities answer three different questions: what does the system know, what can it do, and what has it already done?
Imagine a support assistant.
It retrieves the refund policy, looks up the order, calls the refund API, and remembers what the customer confirmed.
If order lookup fails, the tool must return the error instead of inviting the model to invent an order status.
If a refund already ran, stored state and API idempotency must prevent a duplicate payment.
That single augmented model can already complete many real tasks.
Multiple agents are not automatically necessary.
The key is not to connect as many capabilities as possible.
Each capability must fit the task, expose a clear interface, and be used at the right time.
Running one augmented model on a controlled task usually reveals whether the real gap is knowledge, action, or decision-making before you split the system into roles.
Chapter recap.
First, retrieval provides external facts.
Second, tools perform real actions.
Third, memory preserves task state.